# HW 1

**Due Friday, Jan 26, 9am**

## Section 1: 2, 10, 14, 16, 20, 22, 24    

### 1.1.2
Solve the system by using elementary row operations on the
equations or on the augmented matrix. Follow
the systematic elimination procedure described in this section.

2 x₁ + 4 x₂ = -4  
5 x₁ + 7 x₂ = 11

---

### 1.1.10
The augmented matrix of a linear system has
been reduced by row operations to the form shown. Continue the appropriate row operations and describe the solution
set of the original system.

$$\left[\begin{array}{r}
 1 & -2&  0&  3&  -2\\\
 0 & 1 & 0 & -4 & 7\\\
 0 &  0 & 1 & 0 & 6\\\
 0 & 0 & 0 & 1 & -3
\end{array}\right]$$

---

### 1.1.14
Solve the system of equations.
$$
\begin{array}{r}
x_1 & - & 3x_2 &   &      & = & 5\\\
-x_1 & + & x_2 & + & 5x_3 & = & 2\\\
     &   & x_2 & + & x_3 & = & 0
     \end{array}
$$

---

### 1.1.16
Determine if the system is consistent.  Do not completely solve the system.

$$
\begin{array}{r}
  x_1 & &      & &      &-& 2x_4 &=& -3\\\
      & & 2x_2 &+& 2x_3 & &      &=& 0\\\
      & &      & &  x_3 &+& 3x_4 &=& 1\\\
-2x_1 &+& 3x_2 &+& 2x_3 &+&  x_4 &=& 5
\end{array}
$$

---

### 1.1.20
Determine the value(s) of $h$ such that the matrix is the
augmented matrix of a consistent linear system.

$$\left[\begin{array}{r}
 1 & h& -3\\\
 -2 & 4 & 6
\end{array}\right]$$

---

### 1.1.22
Determine the value(s) of $h$ such that the matrix is the
augmented matrix of a consistent linear system.
$$\left[\begin{array}{r}
 2 & -3& h\\\
 -6 & 9 & 5
\end{array}\right]$$

---

### 1.1.24
In this exercise, key statements from this section are
either quoted directly, restated slightly (but still true), or
altered in some way that makes them false in some cases. Mark each statement True or False, and justify your answer. (If
true, give the approximate location where a similar statement appears, or refer to a definition or theorem. If false, give the location of a statement that has been quoted or used incorrectly, or cite an example that shows the statement is not true in all cases.)

a. Elementary row operations on an augmented matrix never
  change the solution set of the associated linear system.  
b. Two matrices are row equivalent if they have the same
  number of rows.  
c. An inconsistent system has more than one solution.  
d. Two linear systems are equivalent if they have the same
  solution set.

---

## Section 2: 6, 12, 16, 26, 29, 30, 31

### 1.2.6
Describe the possible echelon forms of a nonzero 3 x 2
matrix. Use the symbols ■, ∗, and 0, as in the first part of
 Example 1.

---

### 1.2.12
Find the general solution of the system whose
augmented matrix is

$$
\left[\begin{array}{r}
1 & -7 & 0 & 6 & 5 \\
0 & 0 & 1 & -2 & -3 \\
-1 & 7 & -4 & 2 & 7
\end{array}\right]
$$

---

### 1.2.16
Use the notation of Example 1 for matrices
in echelon form. Suppose each matrix represents the augmented
matrix for a system of linear equations. In each case, determine if the system is consistent. If the system is consistent, determine if the solution is unique.

a.
$\left[\begin{array}{r}
\blacksquare & \ast & \ast \\
0 & \blacksquare & \ast\\
0 & 0 & 0
\end{array}\right]$

b. $\left[\begin{array}{r}
\blacksquare & \ast & \ast& \ast & \ast \\
0 & 0 &\blacksquare & \ast & \ast\\
0 & 0 & 0 & \blacksquare & \ast
\end{array}\right]$

---

### 1.2.26
Suppose the coefficient matrix of a linear system of three
equations in three variables has a pivot in each column.
Explain why the system has a unique solution.
Restate the last sentence in Theorem 2 using the concept

---

### 1.2.29
A system of linear equations with fewer equations than
unknowns is sometimes called an *underdetermined system*.
Suppose that such a system happens to be consistent. Explain
why there must be an infinite number of solutions.

---

### 1.2.30
Give an example of an inconsistent underdetermined system
of two equations in three unknowns.

---

### 1.2.31
A system of linear equations with more equations than
unknowns is sometimes called an *overdetermined system*. Can
such a system be consistent? Illustrate your answer with a
specific system of three equations in two unknowns.
