## HW 4

**DUE: Friday, February 16, 9am**   

**Section 1.9.** 2, (8), 16, (18), (20), 24, (29), 30, (32), 38, (40);  
**Section 2.1.** 2, 4, 6, 16, 18, (22).

----

### Section 1.9
#### Exercises 2, (8), 16, (18), (20), 24, (29), 30, (32), 38, (40)

In Exercises 1--10, assume that $T$ is a linear transformation. Find the standard matrix of $T$.

**1.9.2.**
$T\colon \mathbb{R}^3 \to \mathbb{R}^2$, $T(\mathbf{e}_1) = (1,3)$, 
 $T(\mathbf{e}_2) = (4,-7)$, and 
 $T(\mathbf{e}_3) = (-5,4)$, where $\mathbf{e}_1$, $\mathbf{e}_2$, $\mathbf{e}_3$
 are the columns of the $3 \times 3$ identity matrix.

-------------------------------

**1.9.8.** (recommended)
$T \colon \mathbb{R}^2 \to \mathbb{R}^2$ first reflects points through the 
horizontal $x_1$-axis and then reflects points through the line $x_2 =x_1$.

-------------------------------

**1.9.16.**
Fill in the missing entries of the matrix,
assuming that the equation holds for all values of the variables.

\[\left[\begin{array}{r}
? & ?\\
? & ?\\
? & ?
\end{array}
\right]
\left[\begin{array}{r}
x_1\\x_2
\end{array}
\right]
=
\left[\begin{array}{c}
x_1-x_2\\
-2x_1+x_2\\
x_1
\end{array}
\right]
\]


-------------------------------
In Exercises 17--20, show that $T$ is a linear transformation by
finding a matrix that implements the mapping. 

**1.9.18.** (recommended)
$T(x_1, x_2) = (2x_2 - 3x_1, x_1 - 4x_2, 0, x_2)$

-------------------------------

**1.9.20.** (recommended)
$T(x_1, x_2, x_3, x_4) = 2x_1 + 3x_3- 4x_4  \quad (T\colon \mathbb{R}^4\to\mathbb{R})$

-------------------------------

**1.9.24.**
Mark each statement True or False. Justify each answer.

**a.** Not every linear transformation from $\mathbb{R}^n$ to $\mathbb{R}^m$
is a matrix transformation.  
**b.** The columns of the standard matrix for a linear transformation 
from $\mathbb{R}^n$ to $\mathbb{R}^m$ are the images of the columns of
the $n \times n$ identity matrix.  
**c.** The standard matrix of a linear transformation from 
$\mathbb{R}^2$ to $\mathbb{R}^2$ 
that reflects points through the horizontal axis, the vertical axis, or the origin has the form
$\left[\begin{array}{r}a & 0\\0 & d\end{array}\right]$,
where $a$ and $d$ are $1$ or $-1$.  
**d.** A mapping $T\colon \mathbb{R}^n \to \mathbb{R}^m$
is one-to-one if each vector in $\mathbb{R}^n$ maps onto a unique 
vector in $\mathbb{R}^m$.    
**e.** If $A$ is a $3\times 2$ matrix, then the transformation 
$\mathbf{x} \mapsto A \mathbf{x}$ cannot map $\mathbb{R}^2$ onto $\mathbb{R}^3$.

-------------------------------

**1.9.29.** (recommended)
Suppose $T\colon \mathbb{R}^3 \to \mathbb{R}^4$ is one-to-one.
Describe the possible echelon forms of the standard matrix for $T$. 
Use the notation of Example 1 in Section 1.2.


-------------------------------

**1.9.30.**
Suppose $T\colon \mathbb{R}^4 \to \mathbb{R}^3$ is onto.
Describe the possible echelon forms of the standard matrix for $T$. 
Use the notation of Example 1 in Section 1.2.

-------------------------------

**1.9.32.**  (recommended)
Let $T\colon \mathbb{R}^n \to \mathbb{R}^m$ be a linear transformation, 
with $A$ its standard matrix. Complete the following statement to make
it true: "T maps $\mathbb{R}^n$ onto $\mathbb{R}^m$ if and only if $A$ has
___ pivot columns." Find some theorems that explain why the
statement is true.

-------------------------------
In Exercises 38 and 40, let $T$ be the linear transformation whose
standard matrix is given. In Exercises 38, decide if $T$ is a
one-to-one mapping. In Exercises 40, decide if $T$ maps $\mathbb{R}^5$
onto $\mathbb{R}^5$. Justify your answers.

**1.9.38.**
\[\left[\begin{array}{r}
7 & 5 & 4 & -9\\
10 & 6 & 16 & -4\\
12 & 8 & 12 & 7\\
-8 & -6 & -2 & 5
\end{array}
\right]\]

-------------------------------

**1.9.40.**  (recommended)  
\[\left[\begin{array}{r}
9 & 13 & 5 & 6 & -1\\
14 & 15 & -7 & -6 & 4 \\
-8 &-9 &12 &-5 &-9\\
-5 &-6 &-8 &9 &8\\ 
13& 14& 15& 2 &11
\end{array}
\right]\]

---------------------------------------------------------

### Section 2.1
#### Exercises 2, 4, 6, 16, 18, (22)

**2.1.2.**
Let $A = \left[\begin{array}{r}
2 & 0 & -1\\
4 & -5 & 2
\end{array} \right]$, 
$B = \left[\begin{array}{r}
7 & -5 & 1\\
1 & -4 & -3
\end{array} \right]$,
$C = \left[\begin{array}{r}
1 & 2 \\
-2 & 1
\end{array} \right]$,
$E = \left[\begin{array}{r}
-5\\3
\end{array} \right]$.
Compute each expression if it is defined:  
**a.** $A + 2B$   
**b.** $3C - E$   
**c.** $CB$   
**d.** $EB$  
If an expression is undefined, explain why.

--------------------------------

**2.1.4.**
Compute $A - 5 I_3$ and $(5 I_3)A$, when
$A = \left[\begin{array}{r} 9 & -1 & 3\\-8 & 7 & -6\\-4 & 1 & 8\end{array} \right]$.
-------------------------------

**2.1.6.**
Let 
$A = \left[\begin{array}{r} 4 & -2\\ -3 & 0 \\ 3 & 5\end{array} \right]$ and
$B = \left[\begin{array}{r} 1 & 3\\ 2 & -1\end{array} \right]$.
Compute the product $AB$ in two ways: (a) by
the definition, where $A\mathbf{b}_1$ and  $A\mathbf{b}_2$ are computed separately, and
(b) by the row-column rule for computing $AB$.

-------------------------------

**2.1.16.**
Let $A$, $B$, and $C$ be arbitrary matrices for
which the indicated sums and products are defined. Mark each
statement True or False. Justify each answer.

**a.** If $A$ and $B$ are $3 \times 3$ and 
$B  = [\mathbf{b}_1, \mathbf{b}_2, \mathbf{b}_3]$,
then $AB  = [A\mathbf{b}_1 + A \mathbf{b}_2 + A \mathbf{b}_3]$.

**b.**
The second row of $AB$ is the second row of $A$ multiplied
on the right by $B$.

**c.** $(AB)C = (AC)B$

**d.** $(AB)^\top = A^\top B^\top$

**e.** The transpose of a sum of matrices equals the sum of their
transposes.

----------------------------------

**2.1.18.**
Suppose the first two columns, $\mathrm{b}_1$ and $\mathrm{b}_2$, 
of $B$ are equal. What can you say about the columns of $AB$ 
(assume $AB$ is defined)?
Why?


-------------------------------

**2.1.22.**  (recommended)
Show that if the columns of $B$ are linearly dependent, then
so are the columns of $AB$.

---------------------------------------------------------

### Section 2.2
#### Exercises (3), 4, 6, (15), 18, 32

Find the inverses of the matrices in Exercises 1--4.

**2.2.3.**  (recommended)
$\left[\begin{array}{r} 8 & 5\\ -7 & -5\end{array} \right]$


-------------------------------

**2.2.4.**
$\left[\begin{array}{r} 3 & -4\\ 7 & -8\end{array} \right]$

-------------------------------


**2.2.6.**
Use the inverse found in Exercise 3 to solve the system
\[\begin{array}
8x_1 &+ &5x_2 &= -9\\
5x_1 &- &5x_2 &= 11
\end{array}\]


-------------------------------

**2.2.15.**  (recommended)
Suppose $A$, $B$, and $C$ are invertible $n\times n$ matrices. Show that
$ABC$ is also invertible by producing a matrix $D$ such that
$(ABC) D = I$ and $D (ABC) = I$.

-------------------------------

**2.2.18.**
Suppose $P$ is invertible and $A = PBP^{-1}$.
Solve for $B$ in terms of $A$.

-------------------------------

**2.2.32.**
 Find the inverses of the matrix
$\left[\begin{array}{r} 1 & -2 & 1\\ 4 & -7 & 3\\ -2 & 6 & -4\end{array} \right]$
  if it exists. Use the algorithm introduced in this section.
