# HW 8

**DUE Friday, March 23.**   
**Section 4.3:** (29), 30, 32;   
**Section 4.4:** 4, 8, (9), 12, 16, (18), 22, (23);   
**Section 4.5:** 6, 8, 12, 14, 20, (25), (26), (32).   


## Section 4.3 
### Exercises: (29), 30, 32   


**4.3.29.** (recommended)   
Let $S =\{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_k\}$ be a set of 
$k$ vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$, with $k < n$.
Use a theorem from Section 1.4 to explain why $S$ cannot be
a basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$.

-----------------------------------------------------

**4.3.30.** 
Let $S =\{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_k\}$ be a set of 
$k$ vectors in $\mathbb{R}^n$, with $k > n$.
Use a theorem from Chapter 1 to explain why $S$ cannot be
a basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$.

--------------------------------------

**Remark:** Exercises 4.3.29 and 4.3.30 show that every basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$ must contain exactly $n$ vectors.

-------------------------------------------

**4.3.32.**
Suppose $T$ is a one-to-one transformation. (Recall this means that,
for all $\mathbf{u}$ and $\mathbf{v}$, we have
$T(\mathbf{u}) = T(\mathbf{v})$ implies $\mathbf{u} = \mathbf{v}$.)
Show that if the set 
$\{T(\mathbf{v}_1), \dots, T(\mathbf{v}_p)\}$,
of images is linearly dependent, then 
$\{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_p\}$ linearly dependent.
(This fact shows that a one-to-one linear transformation maps a 
linearly independent set onto a linearly independent set, 
because in this case the set of images cannot be linearly dependent).


---------------------------------------------------

## Section 4.4
### Exercises: 4, 8, (9), 12, 16, (18), 22, (23)   

**4.4.4.** 
Find the vector $\mathbf{x}$ determined
by the coordinate vector
$[\mathbf{x}]_{\mathcal{B}}=\left[\begin{array}{r}-4\\8\\-7\end{array}\right]$
and the basis 
$\mathcal{B}=\left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}-1\\2\\0\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{r}3\\-5\\2\end{array}\right], \left[\begin{array}{r}4\\-7\\3\end{array}\right]\right\}$.

-------------------------------------------------

**4.4.8.** Find the coordinate vector 
$[\mathbf{x}]_{\mathcal{B}}$ of 
$\mathbf{x}=\left[\begin{array}{r}3\\-5\\4\end{array}\right]$ 
relative to the basis 
$\mathcal{B}=\left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\0\\3\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{r}2\\1\\8\end{array}\right], \left[\begin{array}{r}1\\-1\\2\end{array}\right]\right\}$.

----------------------------------------------------

**4.4.9.** (recommended)    
Find the change-of-coordinates matrix from
$\mathcal{B}=\left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}2\\-9\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\8\end{array}\right]\right\}$
to the standard basis in $\mathbb{R}^n$.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.4.12.** 
Use an inverse matrix to find $[\mathbf{x}]_{\mathcal{B}}$ 
for $\mathbf{x} = \left[\begin{array}{r}2\\0\end{array}\right]$
and $\mathcal{B}=\left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}4\\5\end{array}\right],\left[\begin{array}{r}6\\7\end{array}\right]\right\}$.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.4.16.** 
Mark each statement True or False. Justify
each answer. Unless stated otherwise, $\mathcal{B}$ is a basis for a vector
space $V$.

**a.** If $\mathcal{B}$ is the standard basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$, then the 
$\mathcal{B}$-coordinate vector of an $\mathbf{x}$ in $\mathbb{R}^n$ is 
$\mathbf{x}$ itself.

**b.** The correspondence
$[\mathbf{x}]_{\mathcal{B}}\mapsto \mathbf{x}$ is called the coordinate
mapping.

**c.** In some cases, a plane in $\mathbb{R}^3$ is isomorphic to $\mathbb{R}^2$.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.4.18.** (recommended)    
Let $\mathcal{B} = \{\mathbf{b}_1, \dots, \mathbf{b}_n\}$
be a basis for a vector space $V$. Explain
why the $\mathcal{B}$-coordinate vectors of 
$\mathbf{b}_1, \dots, \mathbf{b}_n$ are the columns
$\mathbf{e}_1, \dots, \mathbf{e}_n$ of the $n\times n$ 
identity matrix.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.4.22.** 
Let $\mathcal{B} = \{\mathbf{b}_1, \dots, \mathbf{b}_n\}$
be a basis for $\mathbb{R}^n$. Describe an $n \times n$ matrix
$A$ that implements the coordinate mapping 
$\mathbf{x}\mapsto [\mathbf{x}]_{\mathcal{B}}$. 

-----------------------------------------------

**4.4.23.** (recommended)      
Show that the coordinate mapping is one-to-one. 
[*Hint:* Suppose 
$[\mathbf{u}]_{\mathcal{B}} = [\mathbf{w}]_{\mathcal{B}}$
for some $\mathbf{u}$ and $\mathbf{w}$ in $V$ and show that
$\mathbf{u}=\mathbf{w}$.]


---------------------------------------
## Section 4.5
### Exercises: 6, 8, 12, 14, 20, (25), (26), (32)   

**4.5.6.**
Let
$V = \left\{\left[\begin{array}{c}3a+6b-c\\6a-2b-2c\\-9a+5b+3c\\-3a+b+c\end{array}\right] : a, b, c \text{ in } \mathbb{R} \right\}$. 
Find the following:

**a.** a basis for $V$;

**b.** the dimension of $V$.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.8.**
Let $V = \{(a,b,c,d) : a - 3b - +c = 0\}$. Find the following:

**a.** a basis for $V$;

**b.** the dimension of $V$.


-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.12.**
Find the dimension of the subspace
spanned by the vectors,
$\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\-2\\0\end{array}\right], \left[\begin{array}{r}-3\\4\\1\end{array}\right], \left[\begin{array}{r}-8\\6\\5\end{array}\right], \left[\begin{array}{r}-3\\0\\7\end{array}\right]$.


-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.14.**
Determine the dimensions of $\operatorname{Nul} A$ and $\operatorname{Col} A$ for the matrix
$$A = \left[\begin{array}{r}1 & 3 & -4 & 2 & -1 & 6\\ 0 & 0& 1 & -3 & 7 & 0 \\ 0 & 0& 0& 1 & 4 & -3 \\ 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 & 0 \end{array}\right]$$

-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.20.**
Let $V$ be a vector space. Mark each statement
True or False. Justify each answer.

**a.** $\mathbb{R}^2$ is a two-dimensional subspace of $\mathbb{R}^3$.

**b.** The number of variables in the equation $A \mathbf{x} = \mathbf{0}$
equals the dimension of $\operatorname{Nul} A$.

**c.** A vector space is infinite-dimensional if it is spanned by
an infinite set.

**d.** If $\operatorname{dim} V = n$ and if $S$ spans $V$, then $S$ is a 
basis of $V$.

**e.** The only three-dimensional subspace of $\mathbb{R}^3$ is 
$\mathbb{R}^3$ itself.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.25.** (recommended)    
Let $S$ be a subset of an $n$-dimensional vector space $V$,
and suppose $S$ contains fewer than $n$ vectors. Explain why $S$
cannot span $V$.
-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.26.** (recommended)    
Let $H$ be an $n$-dimensional subspace of an $n$-dimensional
vector space $V$. Show that $H = V$.

-----------------------------------------------

**4.5.32.** (recommended)    
Let $H$ be a nonzero subspace of $V$, and suppose $T$ is
a one-to-one linear transformation of $V$ into $W$. Prove that
$\operatorname{dim} T (H) = \operatorname{dim} H$. 
(If $T$ happens to be a one-to-one mapping of $V$ *onto* $W$, 
then $\operatorname{dim} V =\operatorname{dim} W$. 
Isomorphic finite-dimensional vector spaces have the same 
dimension.)
