# HW 7

**Due Monday Mar 19**  
**Section 4.1:** 2, 10, 12, (15), (17), 18, (20), 24;     
**Section 4.2:** 4, 8, 10, 14, 26, (30), (35);      
**Section 4.3:** 2, (3), 6, 8, (9), (13), 16, 22, (31), (32).  


## Section 4.1
### Exercises: 2, 10, 12, (15), (17), 18, (20), 24     


**4.1.2.** Let $W$ be the union of the first and third quadrants in the 
$xy$-plane. That is, let
$W =  \left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}x\\y\end{array}\right] \mid x y \geq 0\right\}$.

**a.** If $\mathbf{u}$ is in $W$ and $c$ is any scalar, is $c \mathbf{u}$ in $W$?
Why?

**b.**  Find specific vectors $\mathbf{u}$ and $\mathbf{v}$
such that $\mathbf{u} + \mathbf{v}$ is not in $W$. (This is enough to show that
$W$ is *not* a vector space.)

-----------------------------

**4.1.10.** Let $H$ be the set of all vectors of the form
$\left[\begin{array}{r} 2t\\0 \\-t\end{array}\right]$.
Show that $H$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^3$.
(*Hint:* Find a vector
$\mathbf{v} \in \mathbb{R}^3$ such that $H = \mathrm{Span}\{\mathbf{v}\}$.)

---------------------------------------------------

**4.1.12.** Let $W$ be the set of all vectors of the form
$\left[\begin{array}{c} s + 3t\\s - t\\2s-t\\4t\end{array}\right]$
for arbitrary real numbers $s$ and $t$.
Show that $H$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^4$.
(*Hint:* Use the method of Exercise 4.1.11.)

---------------------------------------------------

**4.1.15.** (recommended)  
Let $W$ be the set of all vectors of the form
$\left[\begin{array}{c} 3a+b\\ 4 \\ a-5b\end{array}\right]$
for arbitrary real numbers $a$ and $b$.
Find a set of vectors that spans $W$, or say why 
(or give an example to show) that $W$ is *not* a vector space.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.1.17.**  (recommended)  
Let $W$ be the set of all vectors of the form
$\left[\begin{array}{c} a-b\\ b-c \\ c-a\\b\end{array}\right]$
for arbitrary real numbers $a$, $b$, and $c$.
Find a set of vectors that spans $W$, or say why 
(or give an example to show) that $W$ is *not* a vector space.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.1.18.** Let $W$ be the set of all vectors of the form
$\left[\begin{array}{c} 4a+3b\\ 0 \\ a+b+c\\c-2a\end{array}\right]$
for arbitrary real numbers $a$, $b$, and $c$.
Find a set of vectors that spans $W$, or say why (or give an example to show) 
that $W$ is *not* a vector space.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.1.20.** (recommended)  
The set of all continuous real-valued functions defined on a
closed interval $[a, b]$ of $\mathbb{R}$ is denoted by 
$C[a, b]$. This set is a subspace of the vector space of all real-valued 
functions defined on $[a,b]$.

**a.** What facts about continuous functions should be proved
in order to demonstrate that $C[a,b]$ is indeed a subspace
as claimed? (These facts are usually discussed in a calcu-
lus class.)

**b.** Show that $\{\mathbf{f} \in C[a,b] \mid \mathbf{f}(a) = \mathbf{f}(b)\}$
is a subspace of $C[a,b]$.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.1.24.** Mark each statement True or False. Justify each answer.

**a.** A vector is any element of a vector space.
 
**b.** If $\mathbf{u}$ is a vector in a vector space $V$, then $(-1)\mathbf{u}$ 
is the same as the negative of $\mathbf{u}$.

**c.** A vector space is also a subspace.
 
**d.** $\mathbb{R}^2$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^3$.
 
**e.** A subset $H$ of a vector space $V$ is a subspace of $V$ if the
following conditions are satisfied: (i) the zero vector of $V$
is in $H$; (ii) $\mathbf{u}$, $\mathbf{v}$, and $\mathbf{u} + \mathbf{v}$ 
are in $H$; (iii) $c$ is a scalar and $c\mathbf{u}$ is in $H$.
(If this is false, give the correct conditions.)



------------------------------------------------

## Section 4.2
### Exercises: 4, 8, 10, 14, 26, (30), (35)      


**4.2.4.** Let $A = \left[\begin{array}{r}1&-6&4&0\\0&0&2&0\end{array}\right]$.
Find an explicit description of $\operatorname{Nul} A$ by listing
vectors that span the null space.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.2.8.** 
Let $W = \left\{\left[\begin{array}{c}r\\s\\t\end{array}\right] 
: 5r-1 = s+2t\right\}$.
Use an appropriate theorem to show that $W$ is a vector space, or 
give a specific reason or example demonstrating that $W$ is not a subspace.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.2.10.** 
Let 
$$W = \left\{\left[\begin{array}{c}a\\b\\c\\d\end{array}\right] : 
a+3b = c \text{ and } a+b+c = d\right\}.$$
Use an appropriate theorem to show that $W$ is a vector space, or 
give a specific reason or example demonstrating that $W$ is not a subspace.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.2.14.** 
Let 
$W = \left\{\left[\begin{array}{r}-a+2b\\a-2b\\3a-6b\end{array}\right] : 
a, b \in \mathbb{R}\right\}$.
Use an appropriate theorem to show that $W$ is a vector space, or 
give a specific reason or example demonstrating that $W$ is not a subspace.


---------------------------------------------------

**4.2.26.** 
Let $A$ be an $m\times n$ matrix. Mark each
statement True or False. Justify each answer.

**a.** A null space is a vector space.

**b.** The column space of an $m\times n$ matrix is in $\mathbb{R}^m$.

**c.** $\operatorname{Col} A$ is the set of all solutions to $A\mathbf{x} = \mathbf{b}$.

**d.** $\operatorname{Nul} A$ is the kernel of the mapping 
$\mathbf{x} \mapsto A \mathbf{x}$.

**e.** The range of a linear transformation is a vector space.

**f.** The set of all solutions of a homogeneous linear differential 
equation is the kernel of a linear transformation.

---------------------------------------------------

**4.2.30.** (recommended)   
Let $T: V \to W$ be a linear transformation from a vector
space $V$ into a vector space $W$. Prove that the range of $T$ is
a subspace of $W$. [*Hint:* Typical elements of the range have
the form $T(\mathbf{x})$ and $T(\mathbf{y})$ for 
$\mathbf{x}$, $\mathbf{y}$ in $V$.]

---------------------------------------------------

**4.2.35.**  (recommended)   
Let $T: V \to W$ be a linear transformation from a vector
space $V$ into a vector space $W$. Given a subspace $U$ of $V$,
let $T(U)$ denote the image of $U$ under $T$.  That is,
$T(U) = \{T(\mathbf{u}) : \mathbf{u} \in U\}$. Show that $T(U)$ is a subspace of $W$.


---------------------------------------------------


## Section 4.3 
### Exercises: 2, (3), 6, 8, (9), (13), 16, 22, (31), (32)  

--------------------------------------------------------
Determine which sets in Exercises 1--8 are bases for $\mathbb{R}^3$. 
Of the sets that are not bases, determine which ones are linearly independent
and which ones span $\mathbb{R}^3$. Justify your answers.

**4.3.2**
$\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\0\\1\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}0\\0\\0\end{array}\right],
\left[\begin{array}{r}0\\1\\0\end{array}\right]$.

-----------------------------------

**4.3.3.**  (recommended)  
$\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\0\\-2\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}3\\2\\-4\end{array}\right],
\left[\begin{array}{r}-3\\-5\\1\end{array}\right]$.

-----------------------------------

**4.3.6.**
$\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\2\\-3\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}-4\\-5\\6\end{array}\right]$.

-----------------------------------


**4.3.8.**
$\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\-4\\3\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}0\\3\\-1\end{array}\right],
\left[\begin{array}{r}3\\-5\\4\end{array}\right],
\left[\begin{array}{r}0\\2\\-2\end{array}\right]$.

-----------------------------------

**4.3.9.**  (recommended)  
Find a basis for the null space of the matrix
$\left[\begin{array}{r}1&0&-3&2\\0&1&-5&4\\3&-2&1&-2\end{array}\right]$. 

-----------------------------------

**4.3.13.**  (recommended)  
Let $A = \left[\begin{array}{r}-2&4&-2&-4\\2&-6&-3&1\\-3&8&2&-3\end{array}\right]$
and $B = \left[\begin{array}{r}1&0&6&5\\0&2&5&3\\0&0&0&0\end{array}\right]$
and assume that $A$ is row equivalent to $B$. Find
bases for $\operatorname{Nul} A$ and $\operatorname{Col} A$ .

-----------------------------------

**4.3.16.** Find a basis for the space spanned by the 
following set of vectors: 
$$\left\{ 
\left[\begin{array}{r}1\\0\\0\\1\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}-2\\1\\-1\\1\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}6\\-1\\2\\-1\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}5\\-3\\3\\-4\end{array}\right], 
\left[\begin{array}{r}0\\3\\-1\\1\end{array}\right] 
\right\}$$

-----------------------------------

**4.3.22.** 
Mark each statement True or False. Justify each answer.  

**a.** A linearly independent set in a subspace $H$ is a basis for $H$.

**b.** If a finite set $S$ of nonzero vectors spans a vector space
$V$, then some subset of $S$ is a basis for $V$.

**c.** A basis is a linearly independent set that is as large as
possible.

**d.** The standard method for producing a spanning set for
$\operatorname{Nul} A$, described in Section 4.2, sometimes 
fails to produce a basis for $\operatorname{Nul} A$.

**e.** If $B$ is an echelon form of a matrix $A$, then the pivot
columns of $B$ form a basis for $\operatorname{Col} A$.

-----------------------------------

**4.3.31.**  (recommended)  
Let $V$ and $W$ be vector spaces, let $T\colon V \to W$ be a 
linear transformation, and let
$\{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_p\}$ be a subset of $V$.
Show that if
$\{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_p\}$ linearly dependent in $V$, 
then the set of images, $\{T(\mathbf{v}_1), \dots, T(\mathbf{v}_p)\}$,
is linearly dependent in $W$. 
(This fact shows that if a linear transformation maps a set 
$S = \{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_p\}$ onto a linearly independent set,
then $S$ is linearly independent, too.)

**4.3.32.** (recommended)  
Suppose $T$ is a one-to-one transformation, so that an
equation $T(\mathbf{u}) = T(\mathbf{v})$ implies $\mathbf{u} = \mathbf{v}$.
Show that if the set 
$\{T(\mathbf{v}_1), \dots, T(\mathbf{v}_p)\}$,
of images is linearly dependent, then 
$\{\mathbf{v}_1, \dots, \mathbf{v}_p\}$ linearly dependent.
(This fact shows that a one-to-one linear transformation maps a 
linearly independent set onto a linearly independent set, 
because in this case the set of images cannot be linearly dependent).
